---
title: "Director General from Finland"
abstract: "Taking a train in China with a Director General of Finnish Government"
date: 2018-03-03
layout: post
tags: [Finnland, train, world]
---
I was on secondment in 2015 to the international team of a Ministry to which my organization was subordinate. At the end of April of that year, a delegation of a counterpart ministry of Finland was visiting us. The delegation was headed by a Director General. I was responsible for escorting them through their visit. After official visits in Beijing, I was supposed to take them to Nanjing and Shanghai where they were leaving.

At that time, high speed trains of our country had already gained
international fame. When planning the trip, the Finnish delegation
emailed us that they would like to take high speed train from Beijing to
Nanjing and Shanghai in stead of flights.

When they arrived in Beijing, a colleague from the Finnish Embassy in
Beijing told me cheerfully that they had already bought tickets for high
speed train from Beijing to Nanjing and Shanghai.

Events in Beijing all concluded in success, and they were soon traveling
to the south. Since they were foreigners and carrying a lot of luggage,
we arrived at Beijing South Railway Station in advance for quite a
while. After security check, we were at the waiting room quite early.
Since they did not have time in Beijing to see around a bit, they seemed
quite curious and excited for the numerous shops of local specialties in
the train station, and were willing to have a look.

So there was a question. They were all carrying large pieces of luggage,
and it was obvious troublesome to go with their luggage given the huge
crowd of people in the station. I was about to suggest that they leave
their luggage when they were having conversations in the Finnish
language. I speak English only and was not yet able to put in a word
when they gathered all their luggage and scatted.

I looked around to see which direction were they going and was
frustrated because they were literally going in all directions and
quickly disappeared. So I turned around to see the luggage and found
only the Director General left behind with a huge pile of luggage.
