---
layout: post
title: "Chiang Mai of Thailand"
date: 2018-07-06
abstract: "Lost and found back my phone in Chiang Mai, my favorite city"
tags: [Thailand, lost, world]
---

To be frank, Chiang Mai has always been my favorite city.

It was February 3, 2018 and China Southern Airlines again did not
disappoint me with a delay of flight. I was scheduled to arrive a bit
after lunch but was not there until rush hour after work.![An iconic
songthaew in front of a Wat. Feb. 7,
2016](/assets/img/56807279-478d4f80-6826-11e9-8dfc-d1a09d40773b.jpg)

As the airport was not far away from the place where I was going to
stay, I jumped on a taxi as soon as I got out of the airport. I switched
sim card in the car and was almost there when I got off the call back
home. I got off the taxi and took my luggage.

I was very much astonished when I found my phone missing as I was
checking in with details stored in it. I searched every pocket and my
backpack, and it was still nowhere to be found. I came to a sudden
realization that I must have left the phone on the taxi. So I decided to
call my own phone. But before that I will have to get my own number
first. It took quite a while before my mom send my correct Thailand
number. So I made a call and the taxi driver quickly picked
up.![Visiting my beloved city a second time. Jun. 1,
2017](/assets/img/56807278-478d4f80-6826-11e9-89a8-e0b06852b608.jpg)

He was very kind to offer to take my phone back, but it was rush hour
and he was heading back home some distance away so he would have to do
that on the second morning â€” yet I really need my phone because
otherwise I would not even be able to check in. He was so nice that on
hearing my explanation, he agreed to take back my phone right away.

And that started my super-nice week in Chiang Mai!
