---
title: "Two Totally Different Stories"
date: "2018-03-07"
abstract: "Two different stories of disrupted flights and how different airlines helped to solve the problems"
layout: post
tags: [flight, delay, world]
---
There was [a severe air traffic control on Sunday](/2018/03/04/air_traffic_control_again) and my
flight was delayed for three whole hours without any information. It
reminded me of two stories totally different from each other.

My story is a bit complicated.
------------------------------

On the evening of the terrorist attack in Paris in November 2015, I was
on a flight to Europe. My itinerary was Beijing – Frankfurt – Stockholm
– Amsterdam – Paris – Marseille – London – Beijing, among which the
Beijing – Frankfurt and London – Beijing legs were operated by Air
China, Frankfurt – Stockholm by Lufthansa, Stockholm – Amsterdam by KLM
Royal Dutch Airlines, Amsterdam – Paris – Marseille by Air France, and
Marseille – London by British Airways. I was so lucky that the ticketing
agent was a friend of mine and she managed to have all the flights,
except the two by KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and British Airways, on the
same ticket through government procurement. This saved a lot of red
tapes and also baggage issues. The reason for such a complicated trip
was that I was supposed to meet a group of colleagues in Stockholm for
business in Sweden and the Netherlands, and meet anther group in Paris
after sending the first away in Amsterdam. The second group was visiting
France and UK for a study tour.

Everything was quiet and peace when I boarded the plane, and I was
especially happy that I managed to get a bulkhead seat with extra
legroom. The spacious Boeing 777-300er landed in Frankfurt safely in the
early morning although the flight was delayed for approximately 20
minutes. Since I did not have much time left for the connecting flight
to Stockholm, I went through the EU boarder clearance and security check
quickly, and stormed to the boarding gate. Finally I was there after an
exhausting walk. There was still some time left, so I sat down, took out
my phone and got connected to the airport wifi – messages stated to
flood in.

“Are you all right, David? There’s explosion happening in Paris. Are you
still going there?”

“Paris had a terrorist attack! Be safe!”

……

Messages from my friends warming me up in the chilling morning. I
replied to them that everything was fine with me and it seemed Germany
had little influence after that. Besides, my first stop was Stockholm
and I would not be in Paris until next week. I also sent message to
colleagues of the second group to confirm whether they would like to
cancel their trip given the bad situation.

Things were going mostly smooth in Sweden and news about the attack was
overwhelming the TV. I can still remember one interview on the street
although I am not able to recall his full words now (he was speaking
French and I was reading the subtitles in English). His point in brief
was that they should go on with their peaceful life although the tragedy
had happened in a sudden, and it would be exactly what the terrorists
wanted if they would panic. I was moved really.

On the morning when we were leaving Stockholm for Amsterdam, news came
from colleagues of the second group that they would like to postpone
their trip and I should modify my itinerary to go back too after sending
off the first group – there started the nightmare. I called my friend,
the ticketing agent, to change my ticket. She was not able to change
that on her own because the government procurement system did not allow
her to do that. She called Air China for me and was told to visit the
airline office for modification. She was very kind to go to the airline
office for me.

I quickly canceled accommodation and transportation I have booked for
the second group, packed up my luggage and left for the airport. My
friend called again. She told me that the airline could change my ticket
to Amsterdam – Paris – Beijing with the first flight leg operated by Air
France, and I only needed to pay a couple of hundreds Chinese Yuan, but
they need my organization to pay by cheque, corporate credit card or
bank transfer. I asked my friend to put the airline agent on phone to
ask if she could change my ticket immediately. I would ask a colleague
to go to their office with a corporate credit card right away. She
replied that their business hour was close to end, and I could ask my
colleague to visit them the next day. I confirmed with her again that
tickets would be still available at that time. She promised that she had
reserved seat for me and I would not need to worry about that.

We arrived in Amsterdam in the afternoon. On our way to destination, the
car had a flat tire on the express way. The driver tinkered for a while
and was not helping. He called for help and the road patrol arrived
first. I was quite surprised to see the Rijkswaterstaat sign on the car
because it has been a close partner of my organization for quite a long
time. Rescue quickly came too and we were able to continue our trip with
their help. It was all dark when we arrived at our destination.

I was woken up by my phone in the midnight. My friend had a negotiation
with the airline office and they agreed that I could pay them afterwards
if my friend could leave as much cash as deposit. When my friend visited
them again the next morning, she was told that my reservation had been
canceled and there was no ticket left anymore! The last straw finally
crushed me. I criticized her harshly and demanded that her manager to
solve the issue for me because they could have fixed everything
yesterday. Her manager agreed to ask for help for me from the airline. I
waited in anxiety. About another two long hours later, my friend called
again and the tickets had been changed to Amsterdam – Frankfurt –
Beijing, with the first fight operated by Lufthansa, and I need to pay
more than two thousand Chinese Yuan, for which she had already left as
much cash at the airline office. I was barely able to sleep a bit more
when it was dawn and my alarm went off. My colleague who was staying
downstairs my room asked at breakfast: “Whom were you quarrelling with
in the midnight, young man?”

When all things were finished and my colleagues sent off, I went to
check in for my own flight. I was astonished to discover that I was on
the stand-by list of that flight from Amsterdam to Frankfurt! Air China
sold me a stand-by ticket! I spent the next hour trying to fix things
while I did not know whom I should go to because Air China told me I
should go to Lufthansa who is operating the flight actually, and
Lufthansa told me I should call Air China for help since they sold me
the ticket …… I was so relieved when at the last minute of boarding, I
was finally given a seat on the flight. I was so exhausted after finally
boarding Air China’s Boeing 777-300er registered as B-2088 in the
drizzle of Frankfurt.

![After boarding the Boeing 777-300er registered as B-2088 at Frankfurt
in a drizzle, the Airbus A350-900 of Qatar Airways was visible through
my
window.](/assets/img/56807450-c1253d80-6826-11e9-8f9f-8cef6cda7f36.jpg)

My colleague was much luckier.
------------------------------

My colleague was supposed to go to Copenhagen for a meeting. Since the
direct flight between Beijing and Copenhagen was operated by
Scandinavian Airlines, she had to take a flight from Beijing to
Frankfurt by Air China, and take a connecting flight to Copenhagen by
Scandinavian Airlines, so as to comply with the rules of government
procurement.

Everything went smooth as silk until she was told her father-in-law
passed away and she had to come back in advance for the funeral. Again
it was the payment through corporate card/cheque/bank transfer issue,
but she was lucky to be able to get help in time.

She went to the airport for leaving and found boarding postponed – a
bird flew into the aircraft engine! Flight delay was announced time and
again yet no sign was showing things were getting any better. She had to
go to SAS staff for information because she could barely catch the
second flight if this one was going to be delayed any further.

> – Could you please let me know when is this flight leaving?
>
> – I am extremely sorry but a bird is in the engine and our technicians
> are still working on that.
>
> – Is there any further information? I really need to go to Frankfurt
> because my flight back to Beijing is leaving!
>
> – You are going to Beijing, right?
>
> – Yes!
>
> – In this case, shall I put you on the direct flight to Beijing?

So she arrived ahead of her original schedule.
